README.md, before:

# Red Alert 2: Romanov's Vengeance

Romanov's Vengeance is a 3rd party [OpenRA](http://www.openra.net) mod based on OpenRA [Red Alert 2](http://www.github.com/OpenRA/ra2) mod. It aims to create a Red Alert 2 with balanced multiplayer experience, improvements that comes from OpenRA and other improvements from more modern Command & Conquer games. A custom campaign is also being planned, but not much of a work is done on it yet.

Please note that mod is still under development, even the playtest versions are susceptible to bugs. There are still a few features from the original game that are still missing, there are several placeholder artwork and new stuff and balancing are always subject to change.

Installing the mod is done the same way as another [OpenRAModSDK](http://www.github.com/OpenRA/OpenRAModSDK) mod.

You can join our Discord server [here](https://discord.gg/SrvArjQ).

You can also follow the development on [our ModDB Page](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance).

## Building and Testing

### Prerequisites

- **.NET 6.0** (or **Mono** version 6.4+) - required for running the game
- **Python 3** - required for build scripts
- **Git** - for version control and engine fetching
- **curl** or **wget** - for downloading the engine

### Build Commands

```bash
# Build the mod (fetches engine automatically if needed)
make

# Build using Mono instead of .NET
make RUNTIME=mono

# Clean build artifacts
make clean

# Set mod version
make version [VERSION="custom-version"]
```

### Testing Commands

```bash
# Run StyleCop code analysis on C# files
make check

# Validate mod YAML files
make test

# Check Lua script syntax (requires luac)
make check-scripts
```

### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
.\make.ps1           # Build
.\make.ps1 check     # StyleCop analysis
.\make.ps1 test      # YAML validation
```

### Standalone Scripts

```bash
# Fetch/update the OpenRA engine (called automatically by make)
./fetch-engine.sh

# Launch the game
./launch-game.sh

# Launch a dedicated multiplayer server
./launch-dedicated.sh

# Run mod utilities (YAML validation, map tools, etc.)
./utility.sh [command]
```

### Running the Game

```bash
# Linux/macOS
./launch-game.sh

# Windows
launch-game.cmd
```

## Testing Your Changes

After building the mod, you can test your changes by running the game:

```bash
# 1. Build the mod
make

# 2. Launch the game
./launch-game.sh
```

Then in-game:
1. Start a **Skirmish** game
2. Test the specific features you modified
3. For performance testing, spawn units that use optimized systems (e.g., Dreadnoughts for missile optimizations)

## Packaging / Creating Distributable Builds

The packaging scripts create standalone installers that can be distributed to players.

### Prerequisites by Platform

| Platform | Additional Requirements |
|----------|------------------------|
| **macOS** | Xcode command line tools (`clang`), macOS 10.15+ |
| **Linux** | None (downloads AppImageTool automatically) |
| **Windows** | `makensis` (NSIS), `wine64`, ImageMagick (`convert`) |

### Building Packages

All packaging scripts require a version tag and output directory:

```bash
# First, build the mod
make

# Create output directory
mkdir -p ~/rv-packages
```

#### macOS (.dmg with .app bundle)

Must be run on macOS:

```bash
./packaging/macos/buildpackage.sh <version-tag> <output-dir>

# Example:
./packaging/macos/buildpackage.sh playtest-20241229 ~/rv-packages
```

**Output**: `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229.dmg`

#### Linux (AppImage)

Must be run on Linux:

```bash
./packaging/linux/buildpackage.sh <version-tag> <output-dir>

# Example:
./packaging/linux/buildpackage.sh playtest-20241229 ~/rv-packages
```

**Output**: `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229-x86_64.AppImage`

#### Windows (Installer .exe + Portable .zip)

Must be run on Linux (uses Wine for cross-compilation):

```bash
./packaging/windows/buildpackage.sh <version-tag> <output-dir>

# Example:
./packaging/windows/buildpackage.sh playtest-20241229 ~/rv-packages
```

**Output**:
- `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229-x86.exe`
- `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229-x64.exe`
- `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229-x86-winportable.zip`
- `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229-x64-winportable.zip`

#### All Platforms (Convenience Script)

```bash
./packaging/package-all.sh <version-tag> <output-dir>

# Example:
./packaging/package-all.sh playtest-20241229 ~/rv-packages
```

**Note**: On macOS, this only builds the macOS package. On Linux, it builds Linux and Windows packages.

### Code Signing (macOS only)

For notarized macOS builds, set these environment variables before running the packaging script:

```bash
export MACOS_DEVELOPER_IDENTITY="your-team-id"
export MACOS_DEVELOPER_USERNAME="your-apple-id@example.com"
export MACOS_DEVELOPER_PASSWORD="app-specific-password"
```

## Project Structure

```
├── OpenRA.Mods.RA2/      # C# mod code (traits, activities, warheads)
│   ├── Activities/       # Actor activities (movement, actions)
│   ├── Traits/           # Actor behaviors and properties
│   └── Warheads/         # Weapon damage effects
├── mods/rv/              # Main mod content
│   ├── rules/            # Unit/building definitions (YAML)
│   ├── weapons/          # Weapon definitions (YAML)
│   ├── scripts/          # Campaign/map scripts (Lua)
│   └── fluent/           # Localization files (.ftl)
├── packaging/            # Installer build scripts
└── engine/               # OpenRA engine (auto-fetched, DO NOT EDIT)
```

## Performance Investigation

This fork includes performance optimization work targeting input lag issues observed in multiplayer games. See:

- [ROMANOVS-LAG-INVESTIGATION.md](ROMANOVS-LAG-INVESTIGATION.md) - Root cause analysis and code-level performance hotspots
- [ENGINE-MULTITHREADING-NOTES.md](ENGINE-MULTITHREADING-NOTES.md) - Engine-level multi-threading considerations

### Optimizations Implemented

| Component | Optimization |
|-----------|--------------|
| Missile System | Cached speed modifiers, pre-computed trigonometry |
| Mirage System | Cached player references |
| Warheads | Replaced LINQ with manual loops in hot paths |
| Deploy System | HashSet for O(1) actor lookups |

## Forking with wiki, issues and pull requests

The README and code are copied automatically when you fork. To keep the rest of the project metadata:

- **Wiki:** clone the original wiki and push it to your fork (replace `<your-username>`).
  ```sh
  git clone https://github.com/MustaphaTR/Romanovs-Vengeance.wiki.git
  cd Romanovs-Vengeance.wiki
  git remote set-url origin https://github.com/<your-username>/Romanovs-Vengeance.wiki.git
  git push --mirror
  ```
- **Issues:** GitHub does not copy issues on fork. With the GitHub CLI (`gh`) and `jq` you can export and recreate them:
  ```
  gh api repos/MustaphaTR/Romanovs-Vengeance/issues --paginate > issues.json
  while IFS= read -r issue; do
    readarray -t labels < <(echo "$issue" | jq -r '.labels[]? // empty')
    label_args=""
    if [ ${#labels[@]} -gt 0 ]; then
      label_args=$(printf ' --label "%s"' "${labels[@]}")
    fi
    gh issue create --repo <your-username>/Romanovs-Vengeance \
      --title "$(echo "$issue" | jq -r .title)" \
      --body "$(echo "$issue" | jq -r .body)" \
      $label_args
  done < <(jq -c '.[] | {title, body, labels: [.labels[].name]}' issues.json)
  ```
  Authors and timestamps cannot be preserved.
- **Pull requests:** GitHub cannot transfer PRs to a fork. Keep the original repository as an `upstream` remote to reference old PRs, fetch the source branches, or ask contributors to reopen their PRs against your fork.

Commit message:

Add Known Bugs section to README
Introduced a 'Known Bugs' section in the README with a reference to the bugs.md file for details on documented bugs, root cause analysis, and proposed fixes.

README.md, after:

# Red Alert 2: Romanov's Vengeance

Romanov's Vengeance is a 3rd party [OpenRA](http://www.openra.net) mod based on OpenRA [Red Alert 2](http://www.github.com/OpenRA/ra2) mod. It aims to create a Red Alert 2 with balanced multiplayer experience, improvements that comes from OpenRA and other improvements from more modern Command & Conquer games. A custom campaign is also being planned, but not much of a work is done on it yet.

Please note that mod is still under development, even the playtest versions are susceptible to bugs. There are still a few features from the original game that are still missing, there are several placeholder artwork and new stuff and balancing are always subject to change.

Installing the mod is done the same way as another [OpenRAModSDK](http://www.github.com/OpenRA/OpenRAModSDK) mod.

You can join our Discord server [here](https://discord.gg/SrvArjQ).

You can also follow the development on [our ModDB Page](https://www.moddb.com/mods/romanovs-vengeance).

## Building and Testing

### Prerequisites

- **.NET 6.0** (or **Mono** version 6.4+) - required for running the game
- **Python 3** - required for build scripts
- **Git** - for version control and engine fetching
- **curl** or **wget** - for downloading the engine

### Build Commands

```bash
# Build the mod (fetches engine automatically if needed)
make

# Build using Mono instead of .NET
make RUNTIME=mono

# Clean build artifacts
make clean

# Set mod version
make version [VERSION="custom-version"]
```

### Testing Commands

```bash
# Run StyleCop code analysis on C# files
make check

# Validate mod YAML files
make test

# Check Lua script syntax (requires luac)
make check-scripts
```

### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
.\make.ps1           # Build
.\make.ps1 check     # StyleCop analysis
.\make.ps1 test      # YAML validation
```

### Standalone Scripts

```bash
# Fetch/update the OpenRA engine (called automatically by make)
./fetch-engine.sh

# Launch the game
./launch-game.sh

# Launch a dedicated multiplayer server
./launch-dedicated.sh

# Run mod utilities (YAML validation, map tools, etc.)
./utility.sh [command]
```

### Running the Game

```bash
# Linux/macOS
./launch-game.sh

# Windows
launch-game.cmd
```

## Testing Your Changes

After building the mod, you can test your changes by running the game:

```bash
# 1. Build the mod
make

# 2. Launch the game
./launch-game.sh
```

Then in-game:
1. Start a **Skirmish** game
2. Test the specific features you modified
3. For performance testing, spawn units that use optimized systems (e.g., Dreadnoughts for missile optimizations)

## Packaging / Creating Distributable Builds

The packaging scripts create standalone installers that can be distributed to players.

### Prerequisites by Platform

| Platform | Additional Requirements |
|----------|------------------------|
| **macOS** | Xcode command line tools (`clang`), macOS 10.15+ |
| **Linux** | None (downloads AppImageTool automatically) |
| **Windows** | `makensis` (NSIS), `wine64`, ImageMagick (`convert`) |

### Building Packages

All packaging scripts require a version tag and output directory:

```bash
# First, build the mod
make

# Create output directory
mkdir -p ~/rv-packages
```

#### macOS (.dmg with .app bundle)

Must be run on macOS:

```bash
./packaging/macos/buildpackage.sh <version-tag> <output-dir>

# Example:
./packaging/macos/buildpackage.sh playtest-20241229 ~/rv-packages
```

**Output**: `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229.dmg`

#### Linux (AppImage)

Must be run on Linux:

```bash
./packaging/linux/buildpackage.sh <version-tag> <output-dir>

# Example:
./packaging/linux/buildpackage.sh playtest-20241229 ~/rv-packages
```

**Output**: `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229-x86_64.AppImage`

#### Windows (Installer .exe + Portable .zip)

Must be run on Linux (uses Wine for cross-compilation):

```bash
./packaging/windows/buildpackage.sh <version-tag> <output-dir>

# Example:
./packaging/windows/buildpackage.sh playtest-20241229 ~/rv-packages
```

**Output**:
- `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229-x86.exe`
- `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229-x64.exe`
- `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229-x86-winportable.zip`
- `RomanovsVengeance-playtest-20241229-x64-winportable.zip`

#### All Platforms (Convenience Script)

```bash
./packaging/package-all.sh <version-tag> <output-dir>

# Example:
./packaging/package-all.sh playtest-20241229 ~/rv-packages
```

**Note**: On macOS, this only builds the macOS package. On Linux, it builds Linux and Windows packages.

### Code Signing (macOS only)

For notarized macOS builds, set these environment variables before running the packaging script:

```bash
export MACOS_DEVELOPER_IDENTITY="your-team-id"
export MACOS_DEVELOPER_USERNAME="your-apple-id@example.com"
export MACOS_DEVELOPER_PASSWORD="app-specific-password"
```

## Project Structure

```
├── OpenRA.Mods.RA2/      # C# mod code (traits, activities, warheads)
│   ├── Activities/       # Actor activities (movement, actions)
│   ├── Traits/           # Actor behaviors and properties
│   └── Warheads/         # Weapon damage effects
├── mods/rv/              # Main mod content
│   ├── rules/            # Unit/building definitions (YAML)
│   ├── weapons/          # Weapon definitions (YAML)
│   ├── scripts/          # Campaign/map scripts (Lua)
│   └── fluent/           # Localization files (.ftl)
├── packaging/            # Installer build scripts
└── engine/               # OpenRA engine (auto-fetched, DO NOT EDIT)
```

## Performance Investigation

This fork includes performance optimization work targeting input lag issues observed in multiplayer games. See:

- [ROMANOVS-LAG-INVESTIGATION.md](ROMANOVS-LAG-INVESTIGATION.md) - Root cause analysis and code-level performance hotspots
- [ENGINE-MULTITHREADING-NOTES.md](ENGINE-MULTITHREADING-NOTES.md) - Engine-level multi-threading considerations

## Known Bugs

See [../bugs.md](../bugs.md) for documented bugs with root cause analysis and proposed fixes (non-performance related).

### Optimizations Implemented

| Component | Optimization |
|-----------|--------------|
| Missile System | Cached speed modifiers, pre-computed trigonometry |
| Mirage System | Cached player references |
| Warheads | Replaced LINQ with manual loops in hot paths |
| Deploy System | HashSet for O(1) actor lookups |

## Forking with wiki, issues and pull requests

The README and code are copied automatically when you fork. To keep the rest of the project metadata:

- **Wiki:** clone the original wiki and push it to your fork (replace `<your-username>`).
  ```sh
  git clone https://github.com/MustaphaTR/Romanovs-Vengeance.wiki.git
  cd Romanovs-Vengeance.wiki
  git remote set-url origin https://github.com/<your-username>/Romanovs-Vengeance.wiki.git
  git push --mirror
  ```
- **Issues:** GitHub does not copy issues on fork. With the GitHub CLI (`gh`) and `jq` you can export and recreate them:
  ```
  gh api repos/MustaphaTR/Romanovs-Vengeance/issues --paginate > issues.json
  while IFS= read -r issue; do
    readarray -t labels < <(echo "$issue" | jq -r '.labels[]? // empty')
    label_args=""
    if [ ${#labels[@]} -gt 0 ]; then
      label_args=$(printf ' --label "%s"' "${labels[@]}")
    fi
    gh issue create --repo <your-username>/Romanovs-Vengeance \
      --title "$(echo "$issue" | jq -r .title)" \
      --body "$(echo "$issue" | jq -r .body)" \
      $label_args
  done < <(jq -c '.[] | {title, body, labels: [.labels[].name]}' issues.json)
  ```
  Authors and timestamps cannot be preserved.
- **Pull requests:** GitHub cannot transfer PRs to a fork. Keep the original repository as an `upstream` remote to reference old PRs, fetch the source branches, or ask contributors to reopen their PRs against your fork.
